Greetings and salutations!

Welcome to the Captain's Log (https://warm-bastion-33584.herokuapp.com/). When building this full-stack application I utilized several different technologies such as Node.js, Mongoose, Express and EJS. I also made sure to stick to the MVC file structure: Models, Views, and Controller. This project is full CRUD using all the RESTful routes. While building this I was mainly using my git repository to keep track of everything, but now that it is done, the project has been deployed through Heroku.

Process:
Whenever I am trying to decide what to do a project on I always try to come up with something that if I found it online, I would think it was interesting. I started with the idea to expand on a previous concept that we had worked on of the same name. I sketched out a wireframe of three different pages: the main page, the new entry page, and the archive. But the project grew beyond three pages to five. Originally, I was going to limit myself to just Star Trek characters being featured in the Captain's Log. That was my plan for a while, but once I hit MVP and I could let myself start thinking more about the styling and the content, I decided to change that. Instead of restricting myself to only one mythos, I expanded the scope to include more of sci-fi, pop-culture, and mythology. This came about when I decided that there needed to be a narrative to go along with my site. During workshopping I had received multiple comments that it was not entirely clear what my site was suppposed to be. To add some more flavor to the site I came up with the idea that there was some sort of intelligence or entity travelling through the galaxies/multivers/time & space and collecting information on other travelers of the same in order to chronicle as well as educate others. Thus the Captain's Log was truly born. This helped inform my content and stylistic choices going forward. As previously stated, I was planning a Star Trek-centric, but when deciding to move away from that the design became more full. Different backgrounds for each slide and the sci-fi narrative are probably the most notable changes. That being said, you can still find a few Star Trek characters that are references in the logs, and you'll find the font is called "Bajoran" and is reminiscent of lettering featured in 'Deep Space 9,' the third Star Trek television show.

Resources:
The font I had found through www.fontspace.com.
I do not own any of the images shown, but they were collected primarily through unsplash.com and Google and integrated with imgur.com.
The styling was done through the CSS framework Bootstrap with a mixture of my own tweaks.

Breakdown:
This project breaksdown into five separate pages. Firstly is the main page. Here is where you will see the greeting from the fictional entity that explains the purpose of the site. Next is the Archive. Here is the collection of the observations laid out by which character was observed. When selecting the 'more info' button under any of the entries, it will bring you to more information about the log and will display the individual in question, the date referenced, their vessel, and a snippet of something them by or about them. In this page you have the option to select a button to take you back to the Archive, move to a separate page where you can update the specific entry, or delete the entry entirely. Lastly, there is the option to create a new entry. This takes you to its own page with a form where you can fill in the previously mentioned categories.

Difficulties:
Some of the difficulties that I had building this came from my lack of comfort with the materials at the beginning of the project. Conceptually, I understood, but it was difficult to translate the high-level ideas into action. There were also some more issues wrestling with Bootstrap when I was trying to style. When expanding the hamburger menu, it always shows the background of the edit page, and I couldn't figure out why.

If I had more time:
I was considering implementing a search bar, but by the time I thought of that, it would have been too daunting to try to code in a way to make all the entries searchable. Another thought I had was to add authentication so that only admins could delete, or that you could only add posts when logged in and only edit posts thatg you made. The difficulties with these was - gain - time. Lastly, just adding more content is something I'd like to do.
